# [ADR_011](../../README.md) Use a domain driven micro-services based architecture

Date: 10/30

## Status

accepted

## Context

We debated using either a domain driven micro-services model, an event-based / pub-sub model, or a hybrid workflow/event based model.  This is a significant architectural choice and drives changes across the entire project. This ADR codifies the options and specifies the choice.

### Option 1: **Micro-Services**

In the micro-services model the services are defined by the domain/bounded context/ownership of the data, and RPCs are used to communicate between the services.

#### Pros

* Ability to deploy/scale services individually
* Positive control of data flow
* Ability to receive results/error messages to RPCs

#### Cons

* At scale, message tracing is critical to monitoring/debugging
* Risks of duplicating effort in multiple services

### Option 2: **Event Based**

In the event-based model any state change is trcked by an event in the system and there is either an event dispatcher or componets directly subscribe to the events which are significant to them.

#### Pros

* Flexibility in subscribers (fan-out)
* Ability to deploy/scale subscribers individually

#### Cons

* Decopupling of sender and receiver (potential for mismatched events, unused events)
* Inability to return error state to the publisher.

### Option 3: **Workflow Based**

In the workflow based model a central dispatcher manages the flow of data between the various components, pipelining the events into a well defined chain.

#### Pros

* Central point to manage all data flow
* Allows for the development of complex workflows with feedback and loops

#### Cons

* Central point is a **SPOF**
* Centralized management requires Scale-Up or some form of sharding for Scale-Out

## Decision

We have chosen to go with a **Domain Driven Micro-Services model**. The various domains and the services within them will be sufficiently isolated and scaleble for the current and mid-term future.

## Consequences

Currently, it:

* provides significant flexibility to allow us to extend the system to have greater functionality
* allows us to scale components individually as usage grows
* allows us to enforce message consistenct

In the future we may need to re-evaluate this decision, potentially adding a workflow management component and/or switching to a workflow based model if requirements change.
