# [ADR_003](../../../README.md) Require stock monitoring and calibration sub-component inside of Inventory subdomain

Date: 10/27

## Status

accepted

## Context

A use case of customer make an order online and pick up the food at the SmartFridge. We discovered that there should be a mechanism to update the inventory after the food is fetched by the customer.

There are 2 possibilities for this

### Possibility 1: SmartFridge

[Scott](../personas/scott_(eater).md) either places an order via the website or browses the SmartFridge and then takes his item home. Accurate inventory is required before and after the purchase to ensure reservations are available and items are not oversold.

### Possibility 2: Kiosk

[Jennifer](../personas/jennifer_(subscriber).md) visits her local kiosk and picks up her standing order. We need to record that a subscription has been picked up and maintain accurate inventory. Accurate inventory is required before and after the purchase to ensure reservations are available and items are not oversold.

## Decision

Monitoring and calibration can be resolved by keeping a record of what is taken out of the SmartFridge/Kiosk. We delegate this functionality to the SmartFridge/Kiosk Operator.

## Consequences

If the SmartFridge/Kiosk Operator is unable to provide this information then we will need to rely on the daily delivery driver's ([Edward](../personas/edward_(delivery_driver).md)) update of the inventory. This means that between restockings we run the risk of people not being able to pick up purchased items.

